The Joe Rogan experience.
I always said that you look like a dude who they invented in a Marvel comic book
to kill the Hulk. I guess what she looked like when you were in your prime man.
Yeah. I felt like I probably could have to be like in those days.
I mean, God, you were freakishly huge. It was crazy to see. He was like,
you know, I remember paying attention to bodybuilding from the beginning,
like the Franco Colombo and Swartz and anger days to what you guys had
become, you know, when you were in your prime, you just redefined everything.
Everything was just so extreme.
Yeah. We were pretty, pretty, uh, tough back in the old days.
Everything was hard. You know,
the guy that I was competing against were real good. And, you know,
I just came out of nowhere, you know? Cause I, I got in bodybuilding real late,
you know, where I'm from. We didn't have it.
And I didn't find out about it until I graduated college.
When I went to Texas and started working for the police department.
How old were you at the time? I was about 24.
So that's when he started bodybuilding. That's when I started,
but I had been working out, you know, since I was 12, 13 for sports,
we now I had, I was on the power lifting team. I did power lifting, uh,
in high school.
So I was on the piloting team and you know what, I'm from Louisiana,
real small town. Most of the, a lot of the guys are kind of big.
Like me kind of strong, like me, you know, a lot of people don't understand,
but strength is something like a national, not a natural gift. You know, you,
you can work on it and get better at it,
but you also have to be gifted a little bit. Yeah.
You have to have a nice base and you have to have a little talent, you know,
like this guy, uh, I think I can't remember his name, but uh,
he dead lifted the 1100 pounds. Oh.
That uh, game of Thrones guy. Yeah.
Yeah. A mountain. That's a gift, you know, that's talent. Yeah. He's gifted.
Everybody can't do that. You know, I, I did 800, you know, for a couple of reps,
but uh, I don't think I can do 1100. That's a lot of weight.
That's a lot of weight.
He's an enormous human being though. That guy, if that's a Viking right there.
Yeah. You.
Got to have,
you have to have a lot of weight to be able to pull a lot of weight like that
too.
You, in your career,
you were known for lifting large amounts of weight too.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Like I was saying, you know,
I started power lifting when I was in high school, you know,
I had to like the gift of strength, you know,
I was pretty strong in high school, you know, my all throughout my college days.
And uh, you know, it was just something that I,
I think I was kind of born with it a little bit, you know? Cause, uh,
you don't just start lifting heavy weights like that. All of a sudden, you know,
you have to have a, like I said,
you have to have some kind of natural talent for.
It. Well,
there are some crazy photos of you during the Mr. Olympia days when you were a
police officer, is that you?
Yeah, that's that's me in the ninth grade on the left and that's me and went in.
The, what happened to your arm and the left. You got a cast on somebody out.
I know how to.
Sell for playing football. And uh,
I think I fell on my wrist or something and cracked it or something.
And that's me winning the, uh,
Mr. Universe turning pro in the middle.
And that's me winning the 9 99 Mr. Olympia for right there. Wow.
You were big. Yeah, I was kinda big a little bit.
Well, you know, I got a lot bigger than that. That was my second Olympia.
I only weighed about 2 55. There what's the biggest she ever got. I was 2 95,
my seventh one.
So I put on a little bit more weight as I got on up there. But.
Is it one of those things where you just kind of have to keep up with everybody
else and everybody just keeps getting bigger and bigger?
No, it was that thing when I was trying to distance myself from everybody else.
So I kept getting bigger and bigger, so nobody would catch up with me
and what a lot of people don't understand is you see me big up there like that,
but you know, it took a long time for me to get there. You, no,
that doesn't happen overnight.
I put on about five pounds of muscle between five and 10 pounds of muscle a
year. And that came from all that, you know, that heavy lifting,
a lot of eating, a lot of eating.
A standard meal for you. I mean.
It wasn't a lot to me, you know, but if, if somebody, you know,
normally try to eat, it probably be a lot. So I eat probably like, uh,
a pound of chicken grill breasts, you know,
with a half a cup of rice. That was a normal meal. Yeah.
How many of those did you have a day? I ended know about six meals a day.
You know, it's kind of hard to eat like that, you know?
So I would have to wake up in the middle of the night to eat and go back to
sleep. Really? Yeah. No, no.
Debbie annoying. You're tired and sleeping got to wake up to eat.
No, you kind of get used to it. Yeah. When you eat like that,
you get hungry every three hours. Oh really? Yeah. Every two to three hours.
You're hungry. Cause I'm not, I'm not eating a lot of fat, you know,
it's lean, you know, I'm not eating lots of carbs. So it's just, it's,
it's a little, a little bit of food at a time. For me. It was.
And you would get down to how much, what percent body fat.
I was 0.3, 3.33. What does.
That mean? Is that less than 3%?
Less than half a percent less.
Oh, 0.3, three. Like what 0.3, three human. Get that low.
Uh, I got, I got attributed to my genetics.
But it was also like a trickle-down system, like off season.
Say if you like, how many weeks would you,
would it take for you to get ready for Mr. Olympia? 10 to 12. 10 to 12.
So at 12 weeks out,
how much body fat do you think you were carrying around then?
Uh, about 3%. So three was at a high.
That's the highest? Yeah. Geez.
300. I'm 330 pounds at that though. Oh my God. But.
You get tired all the time without um,
I'm uh I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm really good and fat.
That's good. And fat 3% body fat is good and fat. That's hilarious. Yeah.
Jimmy, see if you can pull up a picture of him winning the seventh,
Mr. Olympia title. When he was at his heaviest, I'm going to see.
What that looks like. I was pretty big at that one. Yeah.
You were big, man. I remember looking at the magazines,
like shaking my head today. I would say, oh, that's photo-shopped yeah,
I didn't have Photoshop back.
Then. No, they didn't have it back there back then. You know,
I was a little bit too big for that when they had me to come down a little bit
for the next one. Oh really? But I came down to like 2 75. So.
When you said they coaches your.
Who judges, the judges.
The judges were telling you you too big. That's when you know he up.
That's when you getting crazy.
When the judges at Mr. Olympia are telling you a guy who's won it
multiple years in a row, in a row, they're telling you,
you get into big Ronnie, take it down a notch.
Yeah. Cause you know, the guy next to me is only like two 50, you know? So.
Why were they saying you, you still looked amazing. Like,
why were they saying you were too big?
Uh, cause I wanted to, it really was too big. Yeah.
For the standards back then, you know.
That. It's really just taste. Right. Like it's they look at it and they decide.
Yeah. In a way it's kind of subjective in a way.
What year was the it's 1 0 5. Was it on five Ryan?
Uh, no, that's the eighth one. Oh fourth number seven.
There we go. Yeah. That's it right there.
Wow. Yeah. God, you were huge.
That does look like a guy who comes out of a lab to kill the Hulk.
You know like some evil genius, like the Hulk is working for the Avengers.
Yeah. Yeah.
So they, they, how do they make that conversation with you?
When they say Ronnie you're too big.
Just talking to my nutritionist. You know,
I haven't nutritionists did on my diets and all that kind of stuff from me.
So they probably just, you know, told him real nicely.
Yeah. Bring it down a notch.
I remember there's a photo of you when you were still on the police force and
you were also,
I don't know if you were Mr. Olympian when you were on the police force,
when you wait time and then you eventually left the forest,
you were so big.
You're sitting there with the uniform on I'm like there is no way that's a
regular uniform.
No, it's not. No, it's not a union.
No shorts. That can't be real.
Did you, did you arrest people with those shorts on? Nah,
I made those shorts myself.
Well we did wear shorts though. We did have shorts police department.
I think you see that picture right there.
I got on shorts and in the briefing room,
but they're not showing my legs right there, right there. Yeah. Yeah.
I have them show us if you, if that,
that picture is actually bigger than that, but you just can't see.
Or other guys that you worked with just start lifting too. Yeah, yeah.
Pretty much. Yeah. Yeah. We.
Had a gym at station. We had about four or five stations.
Every station has a gym. We have a training center with a huge gym. Really?
Yeah. I started working out there when I first hired on,
I worked out with me and the chief and some other guys,
we all worked out together there for a while.
And this in the beginning when I first hired on, yeah. Before I got real,
real big, you know, you know, I've had to start small and I was,
yeah. So I was, I was two 15 when I first started.
Now, when you first started,
did you have this idea that one day and it was this a giant?
No, no, no. I, I did it cause the guy gave me a free membership to the gym.
I never had a dream. I just wanted a free membership.
Cause I was poor back then.
I couldn't afford the pages for a gym membership because I just hired on and
coming from Domino's pizza. Well, you know,
I had to eat pizza every day to survive.
I survived because I didn't make that much money.
By the time I got to the police department and I was still struggling and trying
to get back on my feet and I couldn't afford a membership still. You know,
when you were 24? Yeah, I was 24. So.
You were just a big guy?
Yeah. I've been big and muscular my whole entire life.
But regular big, not like Mr. Olympia bag. Well.
I would say put a picture up there, uh, that somebody took not too long ago.
Cause I, when I, when I first got into a sport, a bodybuilding, uh,
I was doing security at a Mr. Olympia event.
And most of the people in the audience thought that I should be on stage back
then really think so. You know what? They thought that I had 22,
23 inch arms back then I had that, those
20, 22, 20 21, 22 at times in college.
How big were they when you were at your biggest 24? 24?
That's the biggest they got that's like a waste. Yeah.
Yeah. But like, uh, like a runner.
Zach bidder. I bet Zach better got a 24. Yeah.
Actually my waist was like 29 when I first started. Wow. Yeah. Yeah.
I remember Holyfield when he was a heavyweight champion worldly.
A 28 inch waist.
Yeah. That's crazy. Yeah. That's a V right there. Yeah, exactly.
Yeah. Crazy. So you started,
so you do this security for the Mr. Olympia event. Anyone? Yeah.
Did that get like the bug in your head? Did you start thinking? No.
No, no, no. I never started thinking that
I wanted the first one in, uh, night 98.
So how do you enter it? What, what makes you want to enter something like that?
Well, I, like I said, the guy said if you compete,
I give you a free membership to the gym.
So I was just competing for a free membership to the gym.
Cause I worked full-time police department.
I had that job had like a couple of security jobs on the side.
So I didn't really need money from body, but I hadn't, you know,
benefits and everything.
So you wouldn't need money from Bonneville for a free membership.
I was just doing it for free membership.
You do it. And obviously people go, this guy has got real potential.
I guess they were saying that to themselves. I never heard anybody say that.
So what did you do?
Like you just decided to keep going and I just kept going for the free
membership.
Yeah. I'm not going to give it up.
Just was about free memberships at one point in time.
When did it become serious? When I won my first Olympia 98.
That's when it became, when you find your first Olympia. Yeah. Yeah.
Do you know how many Bibles? Right. And I want to jump out of a building.
I'm not, they're going to go right to the top floor and leap out a window.
Yeah. Obviously my dream was always to be a professional football player.
So I played football, uh,
junior high and high school college and all that kind of stuff.
And when not in drafted, I like, okay,
I got a degree so I can get a good job, you know, uh,
with accounting degree and I graduated with honors and all that kind of stuff.
And I figured I'd just being an accountant, make good money there.
So I never had no dreams or aspirations being bodybuilding,
but you never were an accountant? No, I never made it. I never got a job.
So you just got a job at the police department instead? Uh huh. Yeah, exactly.
I tried for about two years to get an accountant job. Yeah. I tried real hard.
I did it a million interviews and uh,
so some of the biggest accounts found in the world in the United States anyway.
And uh, nobody never hired me. So I like two years later. Okay,
I'm done this. Ain't meant to be, ain't nothing happening here.
You know,
that's two years and I always saw an ad for
police officers and when I got the newspaper every weekend and
it was always a big ad, you know? So it, it stood out. So I'm like,
Hmm,
they hire and then you don't need experience because all the jobs I went on,
you know, the interviews I went on, they always want you to have experience.
I'm like, well, hi man. You know, you have no experience. Right. So I'm like,
I'm like, well just give up on this, you know,
just go get me a job where you don't have to have experience. And like I said,
the police officer ads was the thing that stood out the most. And I'm like,
that's not like a job where I can have a lot of fun. You know?
I can't believe that you didn't really get serious until after you won Mr.
Olympia. That's that's hard to believe.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, you gotta understand, you know,
I never had any dreams of being a Mr. NPO.
I never had any dreams of being a bodybuilder. I only did it.
Cause the guy gave me a free membership to the gym.
Once you started getting going and you won Mr. Olympia and you realized,
wow, um,
I'm the best I got to throw myself into this.
Cause the way you worked out, man, I watched a video of you working out once.
And um,
like just the intensity and thinking like this guy is not just doing this guy is
doing this for 12 weeks straight. The intensity that you had in the gym,
like you were, there's a certain level, no matter what the sport is,
champions have a certain level of focus and dedication.
And I remember watching that video go, that's what a champion looks like.
That's what a champion looks like.
Well, you got to also think realized that, you know,
I started working out when I was 12.
I kind of fell in love with it when I was 13 and it just kind of became a hobby
once I joined the power lifting team. So I enjoy working.
Out when you won the first Mr. Olympia, how old were you then? 34. Okay.
So you had a solid eight years of lifting, you know,
this is after you were on the fourth for.
Awhile. Yeah, exactly. And I had all the way. I already had the base to,
you know, being in high school in the power lifting team.
[Inaudible].